= Overview

This is a Ruby library for interfacing with the Sugestio[http://www.sugestio.com] recommendation service. Data is submitted as JSON.

== About Sugestio

Sugestio is a scalable and fault tolerant service that now brings the power of 
web personalisation to all developers. The RESTful web service provides an easy to use 
interface and a set of developer libraries that enable you to enrich 
your content portals, e-commerce sites and other content based websites.

=== Access credentials and the Sandbox

To access the Sugestio service, you need an account name and a secret key. 
To run the examples from the tutorial, you can use the following credentials:

* account name: sandbox
* secret key: demo

The Sandbox is a *read-only* account. You can use these credentials to experiment 
with the service. The Sandbox can give personal recommendations for users 1 through 5, 
and similar items for items 1 through 5.

When you are ready to work with real data, you may apply for a developer account through 
the {Sugestio website}[http://www.sugestio.com]. 

== About this library

=== Features

The following API[http://www.sugestio.com/documentation] features are implemented:

* get personalized recommendations for a given user
* get items that are similar to a given item
* get users that are similar to a given user
* (bulk) submit user activity (consumptions): clicks, purchases, ratings, ...
* (bulk) submit item metadata: description, location, tags, categories, ...  	
* (bulk) submit user metadata: gender, location, birthday, ...
* delete consumptions
* delete item metadata
* delete user metadata
* get performance data (analytics): precision, recall, ...

=== Requirements

* oauth gem (http://github.com/pelle/oauth)

=== Credits

Written by Martin May (http://github.com/HiroProt). Portions inspired by (http://github.com/archfear/simplegeo-ruby).

Copyright (c) 2010 Martin May. See LICENSE for details.

= Usage

== Getting personal recommendations

  require 'sugestio'  
  client = Sugestio.new('sandbox', 'demo')

  result = client.get_recommendations(user_id)

  result.each { |recommendation|
    print "Item #{recommendation['itemid']}, score #{recommendation['score']}\n"
  }

== Submitting consumption data

  require 'sugestio'
  client = Sugestio.new('sandbox', 'demo')

  consumption = {:userid=>'A', :itemid=>'X', :type=>'VIEW'}
  client.add_consumption(consumption)

== Submitting item metadata

  require 'sugestio'
  client = Sugestio.new('sandbox', 'demo')

  item = {:id=>123, :title=>"Product 123", :"category"=>['A', 'B']}
  client.add_item(item)

== Bulk submissions

  require 'sugestio'
  client = Sugestio.new('sandbox', 'demo')

  item1 = {:id=>1, :title=>"Product 1", :"category"=>['A', 'B']}
  item2 = {:id=>2, :title=>"Product 2", :"category"=>['C', 'D']}
  client.add_item([item1, item2])